# Serverless Voltage API


## Deployment

Prerequisites:

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```shell
sam build --use-container
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts:

* **Stack Name**: The name of the stack to deploy to CloudFormation. This should be unique to your account and region, and a good starting point would be something matching your project name.
* **AWS Region**: The AWS region you want to deploy your app to.
* **Confirm changes before deploy**: If set to yes, any change sets will be shown to you before execution for manual review. If set to no, the AWS SAM CLI will automatically deploy application changes.
* **Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation**: Many AWS SAM templates, including this example, create AWS IAM roles required for the AWS Lambda function(s) included to access AWS services. By default, these are scoped down to minimum required permissions. To deploy an AWS CloudFormation stack which creates or modifies IAM roles, the `CAPABILITY_IAM` value for `capabilities` must be provided. If permission isn't provided through this prompt, to deploy this example you must explicitly pass `--capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM` to the `sam deploy` command.
* **Save arguments to samconfig.toml**: If set to yes, your choices will be saved to a configuration file inside the project, so that in the future you can just re-run `sam deploy` without parameters to deploy changes to your application.

You can find your API Gateway Endpoint URL in the output values displayed after deployment.

## Building the App

Build your application with the `sam build --use-container` command.

```shell
sam build --use-container
```

### Issues with Docker

If sam cli is not able to find docker, set the DOCKER_HOST environment variable with the docker endpoint.
To obtain the dokcer endpoint use:

```shell
docker context ls
```

Copy the docker endpoint and run the command like this:

```shell
DOCKER_HOST=unix:///home/daniel/.docker/desktop/docker.sock sam build --use-container
```

## Local Development

### Running a single lambda function locally

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.
Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```shell
sam local invoke StationLastReport --event events/event.json
```

### Run DynamoDB locally

Start DynamoDB Local in a Docker container (port 8000).

```shell
docker run -p 8000:8000 amazon/dynamodb-local
```

Creating the DynamoDB table:

```shell
aws dynamodb create-table \
  --table-name VoltageReportsTable \
  --attribute-definitions AttributeName=station,AttributeType=S AttributeName=date,AttributeType=S \
  --key-schema AttributeName=station,KeyType=HASH AttributeName=date,KeyType=RANGE \
  --billing-mode PAY_PER_REQUEST \
  --endpoint-url http://localhost:8000
```

### Run API Gateway locally

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```shell
sam local start-api
curl http://localhost:3000/
```

The SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.


## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name "voltage-api" --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Testing

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the test dependencies and run tests.

### Set up

To run the tests first create a virtual environment and install necessary dependencies:

```shell
python3.11 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r ./requirements/dev.txt
```

### Running unit tests

With the virtual environment activated you can run the unit tests:

```shell
pytest ./tests/unit
```

### Integration tests

#### Run against local infrastructure

Integration tests can be run against API Gateway and DynamoDB running locally or on AWS.
To run the test locally set the API_HOST env variable to 'localhost', example:

```shell
API_HOST="localhost" pytest ./tests/integration -v
```

The tests expect API Gateway to be running on port 3000. 

#### Run against the cloud

To run the integration tests against the API running set the env variable API_HOST to 'aws'. The stack needs to be deployed before running the tests:

```shell
API_HOST="aws" pytest ./tests/integration -v
```


## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
sam delete --stack-name "voltage-api"
```